Say, “It was revealed to me that a group of jinn listened in, and said, ‘We have heard a wondrous Recitation.
It guides to sound judgment, so we have believed in it, and we will never associate anyone with our Lord.
And He—exalted be the Grandeur of our Lord—never had a mate, nor a child.
But the fools among us used to say nonsense about God.
And we had thought that humans and jinn would never speak lies about God.
Some individual humans used to seek power through some individual jinn, but they only increased them in confusion.
And they thought, as you thought, that God would resurrect no one.
And we probed the heaven, and we found it filled with fierce guards and projectiles.
We used to take up positions to listen in, but whoever listens now finds a flare lying in wait for him.
We do not know whether ill is intended for those on earth, or whether their Lord intends guidance for them.
Among us are those who are righteous, but some of us are less so. We follow divergent paths.
We knew for certain that we could never thwart God on earth; nor could we ever thwart Him by fleeing.
And when we heard the guidance, we believed in it. Whoever believes in his Lord fears neither denial nor burden.
Among us are the submitters, and among us are the deviant. As for those who have submitted—it is they who have attained Right Guidance.
But as for the unjust—they will be firewood for Hell.’”
Had they kept true to the Path, We would have given them abundant water to drink.
To test them with it. Whoever turns away from the remembrance of his Lord, He will direct him to torment ever mounting.
The places of worship are for God. So do not call, besides God, upon anyone else.
And when God's servant stood up calling on Him, they almost fell on him in a mass.
Say, “I pray only to my Lord, and I never associate anyone with Him.”
Say, “It is not in my power to harm you, nor to bring you to right conduct.”
Say, “None will protect me from God; and I will find no refuge, except in Him.
Except for a proclamation from God and His messages. Whoever disobeys God and His Messenger—for him is the Fire of Hell, abiding in it forever.”
Until, when they see what they were promised, they will know who is weaker in helpers, and fewer in number.
Say, “I do not know whether what you are promised is near, or whether my Lord will extend it for a period.”
The Knower of the invisible; He does not disclose His Unseen to anyone.
Except to a Messenger of His choosing. He then dispatches guards in front of him, and behind him.
So that He may know that they have conveyed the messages of their Lord. He encompasses whatsoever is with them, and He has tallied everything by number.
